# Deltora Quest - translated TSV files
This repo contains WIP translation files for text strings from _Deltora Quest - Nanatsu no Houseki_ for the Nintendo DS. These files are simple TSV (Tab-Separated Values) files exported with the _dump_strings.py_ script from [deltora-explorer](https://github.com/Tayrtahn/deltora-explorer). Each row contains the string's header data (which I have yet to fully decode, but contains info about the graphics and audio that should be used when displaying the string), the original Japanese text extracted from the game data, an automated translation using Google Translate for reference, and a final translation that will be reimported into the game, as well as any optional notes from the translation process.

This project's purpose is to produce the tools and data needed to convert a valid Japanese copy of the game into an English-language localized version. The final output of the project will likely be a binary patch file that can be applied to a valid ROM using a tool like xdelta or similar. For legal reasons, I cannot release a pre-patched ROM file.

The goal is localization, rather than a direct, literal translation. Because this game was based on an English-language book series, a number of changes were made by the original developers in the process of Japanese localization. Rather than re-translate a translation, I have opted to use the books as sources when appropriate. In some instances, this has allowed me to restore some context that was lost in the original English-to-Japanese localization. 

It is also worth noting that I do not speak or read Japanese. I am using context, machine translation, and the original English books to interpret the text. As a result, there may be some context, especially jokes or wordplay, that I am missing. If you spot anything like that, please do let me know!